It seems like the conversation was already in progress and then suddenly stopped. Here's a continuation of the conversation:

Mr. Stefaniak: ...defend our mining industry? Did we really do that? No, we didn't. We took over the entire Russian coal market. We are one of the biggest importers of Russian coal. This means that we have to pay for it. And this is exactly what happened. The prices increased dramatically.

Host: But isn't it true that Poland was one of the first countries to stop importing coal from Russia, as part of the sanctions?

Mr. Stefaniak: Yes, but that doesn't mean we didn't continue buying Russian coal after a year ago, when the war started. We did. And this is exactly why our prices skyrocketed. Meanwhile, other European countries continued to import coal from Russia, and their prices are still much lower than ours.

Host: That's an interesting point. So, what do you think we should do? Should we continue to cut off our trade with Russia, or try to find ways to get cheaper coal?

Mr. Stefaniak: I don't think it's that simple. We can't just stop trading with Russia overnight and expect everything to work out. But at the same time, we can't ignore the fact that our prices are through the roof because of Russian sanctions. What we need to do is to negotiate better terms with Russia or other suppliers, like China, for example.

Host: That's a good point. And what about the moral aspect? Some people might say that we should be supporting Ukraine and cutting off trade with Russia as a form of economic pressure.

Mr. Stefaniak: I don't think that approach is going to work. As I said earlier, China is a much bigger supplier of coal than Russia, and they have similar human rights issues. If we start boycotting Chinese coal, it's not going to make a significant difference in terms of Russian coal prices. And what about our own interests? Do we really want to sacrifice our energy security for the sake of politics?

Host: That's a tough argument to make. Maybe we can explore other options, like investing in domestic coal mining or renewable energy sources.

Mr. Stefaniak: Exactly! That's what I'm saying. We need to diversify our energy sources and invest in cleaner technologies. But that takes time and investment. In the short term, we need to find ways to mitigate the impact of Russian sanctions on our energy prices.