There are not many games in Poland surrounded by such a cult as the good old Gothic,
whose first installment ended as early as 23 years ago this year.
On the scale of the phenomenon of this series, it may be that an official remake of the first installment is being created,
over two years ago there was the premiere of the great, huge mod to the second Gothic - Chronicles of Myrtana Archolos,
or that quite recently the first two Gothic games have reached their ports on Switch.
Although far from perfect, but still.
In addition, the community of fans is constantly creating smaller mods to these games,
including the development of Gothic Online, which you may have seen several times on my channel.
As some of you probably know, from time to time I tend to look closer at larger or more ambitious projects,
mainly related to the Witcher or Gothic universe,
and this time I came across this second game and a very ambitious project called Veritas RP,
which I will try to tell you about today.
Enjoy the video!
[Veritas RP]
A team of over 20 enthusiasts decided to create a role-playing server,
thanks to which each of us will be able to live in the new,
set in the Gothic universe, fan-made princedom, entitled Veritas.
I recently had the opportunity to talk to three people from the team responsible for this project.
Pawel Jaroslaw Olszak, the main programmer,
Konrad Jaged Zawiszek, the leader of the 3D department,
and Daniel Hoffman-Kamiński, the owner and creator of the server.
And the fragments of the conversation with them will be intertwined during the episode.
♫ Although my heart longs for you, ♫
♫ a year is waiting for you. ♫
♫ Veritas is safe ♫
♫ when you take a quiet step. ♫
Where did the idea for creating this server come from and why Gothic?
You know what, it's a pretty interesting story,
because almost three years ago,
my friend and I wanted to play roleplay,
because we've been playing roleplay since 2007,
but in a timely, earlier release.
We had three different approaches,
because at first we assumed that we wanted to create something of our own,
so we thought about Bannerlord,
but we did it because of the small Polish community,
quite a large threshold due to the hardware requirements and the price of the game itself,
so we abandoned it.
The second thing was a project that fell apart very quickly,
and it was a multiplayer platform for The Witcher 3, which fell apart.
And Gothic remained.
At that time, there was a project, we played it for a while,
we realized that it was something completely different than what we are used to.
And that's how my idea to make Veritas came about.
The number of people is hard to estimate,
as I said, over the two years,
the rotation was what it was, a lot of people came, a lot of people left.
At this point, I didn't count, there are probably over 20 people.
At this point, we have 27 people.
Exactly, at this point 27 people, and there are different people.
The project is divided into many sectors that work relatively autonomously,
we have a game design, which is responsible for designing all the game solutions
in terms of how a given system is supposed to work,
and ultimately there are game masters and supporters,
so there are people who design the world presented together with me,
or will ultimately serve the player in the first line.
We have a script department with a representative, with Jarek,
who is with us at the conversation, who is implementing this design,
he has already signed up for the code.
We have a 3D department, which is represented by Jaged, who is also present with us.
Here we have a 2D department, we have a music department, and we have a department responsible for the web,
which is responsible for all the issues of the forum, the blending page,
or web applications, in which both the administration and the players
will be able to manage most of the aspects related to the game.
For the sake of the project, the team will create an author's map,
which will be mostly surrounded by the city itself, playing the role of the capital of the principality.
Anyway, the Veritas map should be displayed on your screen.
According to the description of the plot, the Veritas principality is an autonomous feudal entity,
which was created in its time as a result of the Veritas Union.
A few years before the union, the Veritas city law was passed by the king of the Robar I, who was then the lord of Myrtana.
Veritas has a long and rich history.
The principality includes vast areas in the south of the Kingdom of Myrtana,
including three slaves, three cities and 25 villages.
Taking into account that our country and our entire universe is something completely new,
not related to any mod, no canon, so it's a completely new creation,
we also had to think about how we want to introduce it into the Gothic universe.
And while such final dates are not yet finalized,
due to the fact that Gothic itself is quite empty and not quite easy to work with when it comes to dating,
I can say that when it comes to the plot itself, which will take place during the project,
when the players will start playing it,
we assumed that we would consider the entire Gothic 1 canon,
the entire Gothic 2, but Gothic 2 ends in our timeline,
that the hero defeated the beast, sailed to the sea and the hearing about him disappeared.
So everything related to Gothic 2 is canon,
Gothic 3 is no longer related to the start of the project, it is dated to about 15-20 years after the events of Gothic 2.
The war is still going on, although the front does not move towards the Kingdom of Myrtana as it takes place in Gothic 3.
However, when it comes to the history of Veritas and its creation,
or the existence for a few hundred years,
they will be intertwined with the main timeline of Myrtana's life.
When it comes to the general outline that introduces the total layman from the outside,
it introduces him more or less in what we are dealing with here,
the story that we will build within the boundaries of our principality,
precisely within the boundaries of its capital, because the game will take place there,
it is really only and exclusively dependent on where the players will go, what ideas they will have,
and what trend we will eventually take.
In addition to its own map or unique plot,
the team responsible for Veritas will also create original armor,
weapons for both close and long-range combat,
a new professional soundtrack or various interesting innovations.
My attention was drawn to the fact that players will be able to buy a flat in the city,
which they will be able to equip according to their own preferences,
but in order not to significantly limit the number of such apartments,
it will work on the principle that after entering their home, the player will move to a separate room,
which in reality will be located somewhere deep underground.
At the beginning, we will be able to create our character with the help of the editor,
and we will be able to join almost anyone we want.
Veritas, as it turned out in the capital of the principality, i.e. a large city,
is to have a lot to offer.
There will be many districts in it -
Central, Portowa, to which Slams and Port Koronny will also belong,
then the residential district, Klasztorna, Rzemieślnicza, Burżuazyjna and Górne Miasto.
And looking at the map, today we can find an amphitheater,
a basement of the Crown Guard, a university, a town hall and a dresser,
a shipyard, a citadel, a crown port, a Torino Palace or even a palace of the Duchess.
You know what, when it comes to signed buildings,
we wanted to designate such icons that have some permanent functions,
so as not to, to put it bluntly, to put a label on the whole map.
However, most buildings are either generic, I will explain what it is about in a moment,
or have some function.
We are talking about buildings that will either be intended for the user as a place to live for a given character,
so it will be a building to be bought by the player and managed under him,
or a building as an object intended for the group will be purchased.
So either for a workshop or some project, someone can play an association and want to play something there,
so you can buy a hall and play it there.
In general, we have over 200 unique buildings, so there is a lot of it.
The choice of what we will be able to do will be large.
What should be emphasized, the map will be devoid of NPCs,
so all the roles in the city will have to be occupied by players.
Players who, despite the great freedom in the world of Veritas,
will have to follow certain rules.
First of all, the regulations of the economy in the city,
or the players will have to stick to the scenario and try not to leave their roles.
But how does such a PRP work?
After all, some may not know it.
The roleplay is not equal and I think that the Gothic 2 Online platform itself shows it well.
I think that the project owner has a different vision, more or less different from the original.
However, we are creating a project based on classic platform roleplay,
such as players of older age who played on Samp or MTA,
from such top servers as The Gaming or LSRP, will associate.
So, to put it simply, for people from the outside, roleplay in our edition
is nothing more than a world presented by us.
We put all traditions, customs, customs, structures,
city, state, history, possibilities of development, roles, social castes into it.
And each player creates his own avatar, his own character.
Of course, you can create more than one,
each character can be introduced in a completely different way and have a different story.
And it's not like everyone is nameless,
that he has some kind of a top-down scenario prepared that he has to go through.
Absolutely not.
In such brutal words, it's a bit of a life simulator,
I won't say in the Middle Ages, but in the universe created by us in the Gothic universe.
If there are already several RP servers, what will Veritas stand out for?
The servers that were created, and of course I do not diminish them in any way,
because I think that the definition of entertainment is that the player has fun
and maybe someone else's way of playing and playing roleplay is more suitable.
However, if we notice the projects that have been created so far,
these are such mixes, I would call them roleplay and MMORPG,
where we have all the mechanics of exp,
how to level up on singleplayer, how to develop these statistics,
how to do some quests on singleplayer, even some conversations with NPCs.
We, on the other hand, as I said, we depart from this mix
and return to this pure gameplay resulting from the interaction between players,
between groups of players and such a more narrative than mechanical MMO.
I think that we definitely have something that has been rarely seen for the past few years,
if at all.
For sure, here we want to introduce our own fighting system,
which completely deviates from the basic one that we saw in Gothic 1 or 2.
Unlock the camera scene so that the player, like in GTA,
could freely look around the character,
and of course changing a little bit the movement of the character itself.
And this is definitely one of such innovative things.
The second, probably, big element is our integration between the website and the game itself,
where we put a lot of things aside so that in real time they just communicate with each other,
if we want to ban someone, remove,
and also whether there is a leader of some group, whether it is a criminal one,
or something like that, they want to change something, add some ranks to their structures.
Well, it all works in real time and it is definitely something that has not been done on a larger scale yet.
Okay, so basically, how much of the map is ready at the moment?
When it comes to the map, the model of the map itself is already finished,
except that we still have to make some minor corrections,
where and where you have to put collisions, add some visible walls so that the player does not come across the map,
but these are rather such finishing touches rather than adding some new terrain or something,
so in this regard, the map is finished,
only its ovaling remained,
that is, adding all these static objects in the form of trees, benches, some other smaller decorations.
And now it reminds me more of a game in the Sims,
we have a man with a shovel, who actually goes in after hours and puts these shovels on the map.
As for the ovaling itself at the moment, if I count correctly, we have 4 districts ready,
5 is slowly finished,
and there will be 4 more,
due to the fact that the map has also been completed,
we will be able to delegate a little more people to ovaling than to make models of buildings or maps,
so it should also speed up.
The map, the model itself is ready,
only it still needs to be polished a bit.
Model + textures, of course, now we are talking about our main map.
Yes, yes, yes, exactly, model + textures.
And what about the area outside the city?
Residents must finally get food from somewhere.
They will not be dependent on the trade with the neighbors.
An important aspect is that we are not an island,
Veritas is located on the continent, we are in the southern part of Myrtana.
The Veritas principality is in the vassal state of Myrtana,
but with a very large autonomy, with its own army, with its own politicians, etc.
As for the out-of-town areas, they are quite limited, as you can also see on the map.
But the vast majority, not to mention 90% of the map, is the whole city and it is a target.
As for these out-of-town areas, we have a rock shelf in the western part of the city,
where there is an amphitheater, a subordinate to the crown, and a beach.
As for the north, we left classic farms, grain farms and dense forests there.
And this is a bias towards players who want to introduce something to their gameplay with hunting or farming.
Looking at all this, I couldn't help but ask one more question.
Looking at the scope of your project, the effort you put into creating all this,
you make a big, complicated city, armor and even a music path,
it's hard for me to stop and not ask you if your ambitions are not reaching even further.
Have you thought about releasing any story modifications?
I think that everyone who does Gothic, sooner or later, has such a thought.
However, at the moment I do not want to reveal anything more,
but in the future, maybe someone knows, something may appear.
At the moment, we are focusing on getting to this project, i.e. the multiplayer server.
If there are any desires, we will not rule out that something else may appear.
I guess it's hard to estimate when the server will start.
As I said before, it's hard to estimate the project as a whole for a very simple reason.
The project is divided into several teams that work autonomously,
and everyone progresses at their own pace.
This results from many things, either from the complexity of tasks, their difficulties,
or from the number of people involved, so in fact also the processing power.
So it's hard to say for sure, progress in some calculated percentage.
However, I can say that we do everything to release it as soon as possible,
with the same behavior, as high quality.
And it rather depends on the fact that at the start,
no one feels discomfort resulting from any shortcomings on our part.
Finally, I would like to add that Veritas will be present at this year's CD Action Expo in Łódź at the beginning of June,
and in the same month at Pyrkon in Poznań.
And what can we expect from them at these events?
As for CD Action Expo, we cordially invite all fans or those interested in our project.
At the CD Action Expo itself, we will have 6 computer stands,
where everyone will be able to sit down and see what the project looks like at the moment.
We will be able to visit our map or test systems that are already ready,
and we decided to release them for this demo version.
However, as for Pyrkon, as for CD Action Expo, there will also be 6 computer stands,
where you can test what I have already mentioned.
Perhaps something new will appear in these two weeks, which we will add to the whole.
But apart from that, we have the pleasure of conducting 3 pre-lectures.
One will be about our project "Veritas in the world of Gothic",
where we will tell you exactly what the work with the project looks like,
how each of the sections works, what novelties and technical and artistic are related.
The second pre-lecture, a little smaller, will be about the expansion of the Gothic world.
It will tell you what we at Veritas do to make this Gothic world,
despite 20 years and hundreds of mods, make the game fresh and attractive for the player.
And the third, smallest pre-lecture will be about the architecture of the Gothic world in 2D and 3D.
We cordially invite each of you.
In this case, I have nothing left but to wish the Veritas team good luck
and keep your fingers crossed for the ingenuity of the project.
In the description of the film, you will be able to find a link to the Discord server,
where those interested will be able to get to know their project better
and to Patronite if someone wants to support them.
That's all I had to present to you in today's video.
Be sure to let me know in the comments what you think about the Veritas RP project.
And besides, I invite you to subscribe, like and support the channel.
In the description, you will also find links to my Facebook and TikTok.
Bye!
[music]
