1
[music]
What's going on, Mr. Mariusz?
What did you hear again?
I checked a few forecasts from the year before, which were set for 2022, and few of them turned out to be prophetic.
Well, for example, the inflation forecast. Even the president of the National Bank of Poland was wrong.
I think it's quite typical. Why else?
Because he's an expert.
Yes, some say that, but I say that there is a lot of pressure on most of the experts I know from most of the areas I have contact with.
Even financial influence cases are documented on the position, opinion or decision of experts.
And I don't think it should be a shock to anyone.
Before we get to the topic, it's time to introduce our guest, and he is and will be our weekly guest, Mariusz Stefaniak.
A man who connects many fields, both as a practitioner and as a theorist.
Economist, financialist, manager, among other large IT companies, marketing specialist, and most of all, the president of the "Więcej Mądrości" Foundation.
Let's pay attention to the name - "Więcej Mądrości".
Every week we will meet regularly and talk about the economy and the complexity of the world.
Good morning, Mr. Mariusz.
Hello, I bow.
Let's get back to the topic.
An example of a wrong forecast is the housing market.
It was supposed to develop infinitely, prices were supposed to rise, demand was supposed to rise, and here it suddenly turns out that not so much.
Yes, this is a beautiful example.
Why were these forecasts so optimistic in this case?
Optimistic? There is only one answer, because this is what you earn.
And you earn huge money.
Please note that the real estate market is one of the most profitable markets in the world.
Developers earn, landowners earn, good business.
Governments earn, sir.
This is probably the most important.
A great example, for example, such an extreme, but the largest in the world, are China.
One day we can talk about it in detail, I will show the whole mechanism, a shocking mechanism, I assume for the majority.
For me, a completely standard thing in this industry.
I am saving topic number one for the next edition.
But we also have the cryptocurrency market, which has grown incredibly and it seemed that it would also grow all the time.
Yes, the forecasts were amazing.
I remember forecasts that said that in 2022 Bitcoin would cost 120, 140, 150 thousand dollars.
Well, how much it costs today, it's easy to see.
The mechanism itself, ladies and gentlemen, and it's easy to notice a certain scheme, because you make great money on it.
On recording something that we can safely call speculative banks.
But someone goes, someone else buys, agrees, accepts these prices.
So what, we have on the one hand, the players, and on the other hand, the sheep that go where they are told?
Exactly, you know it well.
This is how you can emphasize all events in the history of the world.
Sheep go to slaughter, and the shepherd benefits from it.
But let's get back to the topic of experts who predict and not always or rarely do they come across these predictions.
Do we have bad experts or do we have experts who work on someone else's order, not necessarily those who listen to them?
We definitely have good experts in the world and they are brilliant people, great specialists.
But a completely strange coincidence is not the people who are most liked and promoted by the government, the media or large corporations.
They can't get through with their message to the mass media, to public information.
Yes, because this message warns the sheep that they are going to slaughter.
Well, the shepherd can't like such a message, please forgive me, no shepherd will agree to someone who will warn the sheep before entering the slaughterhouse.
Well, because they will rebel.
Well, or they will go the other way, because it will suddenly turn out that the shepherd cannot handle hundreds of thousands of sheep at once.
Unless the sheep will follow the sheep that leads them.
Well, Mr. Marysia, but maybe we live in very unpredictable times, maybe it was simply not possible to predict the war and the attack of Russia on Ukraine.
Well, the facts speak differently, sir.
The facts that have been documented beyond any doubt are that at least 7 months earlier, the largest governments had 100% certain data on the attack.
What will it be, how will it be, where will it be? These are the facts. It was even half-published.
It didn't get to the public opinion.
It did, you just have to know where to read it.
At this point, we will take a short break, we will be back after a moment of music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
Music.
What's up, Mr. Mariusz? We're back on the air. Our guest is an economist, a financial expert, Mariusz Stefaniak.
Mr. Mariusz, one of the examples of events, actually global events, which dominated the world public opinion for a very long time and suddenly stopped, is the COVID pandemic.
Two years ago, it was number one on all news, everyone was afraid of the pandemic. Suddenly, we stopped being afraid of it.
Is COVID still a real threat? Was it a real threat to us?
It was, without a doubt, but not as people believed.
What do you mean?
I mean, COVID was and is a deadly threat, but economically, financially, socially, that's its main, crushing, deadly force.
But the virus attacks humans, not the economy.
You're right, but from what I know, we absorb a huge amount of viruses every day and somehow we live. And you've known that for thousands, thousands, thousands of years.
And if you checked the scientific facts, what I did at the beginning of the pandemic, because I didn't know either, of course, I'm not an omnibus, so I learned.
And what I saw solved most of the questions for the next two years.
But I can also show you exactly what I did, how I did it and how I ended up.
Because it's slowly coming out and it's coming out on a gigantic scale. And it will be coming out for at least another year, that's for sure.
So let him tell you a little more.
For example, I will give you simple facts that are published again, so I will be able to verify what I say very quickly.
For example, in a mysterious way, contracts with the largest companies that have received vaccines around the world have disappeared.
And officials from the European Union are not able to present contracts on the basis of which they bought and introduced vaccines to the circulation.
They even forced people to take it, at least they persuaded, and at times they forced.
And now they are not able to show these documents on the basis of which they did it.
And in other countries similar things are happening.
And please believe me that this is only going to get deeper.
In addition, there were also evident financial links between the most important officials who were responsible for implementing these regulations,
again with the same companies that were making money on it.
And these are documented things.
Another fact that has already been published is that some governors in the United States have already officially submitted a report on the pursuit,
the explanation of the pursuit of the COVID-19 curfew,
that is, the introduction of dangerous substances into circulation,
which could and are fully aware that they were introduced,
with full awareness that they could cause damage, even deaths,
and it was associated with corruption.
So these are things that, in my opinion, will dominate at the beginning of 2023,
because people will be outraged by this lethargy,
that governments were taking care of their safety by introducing radical regulations that are in contradiction,
such as, for example, in Poland with the Constitution,
with the regulations of the higher order,
with the limitation of freedom,
the right to move,
the right to conduct economic activity.
After all, you certainly know that almost all prohibitions, prohibitions and penalties were later annulled by the courts,
because they were inconsistent with the law.
As a contradiction with the Constitution.
So what, we're going back to the sheep herd scheme again,
which are mindlessly following the voice of the shepherd,
and the shepherd is not merciful to them?
Yes, and some kill. Exactly.
This is not the only thing that will probably dominate in 2023.
There are other international problems that are less heard about in Poland,
we talk less about it,
but things are happening in the world arena that may have a very strong impact on us soon.
For example, the situation in China.
What happened there?
Yes, we have to pay special attention to China in 2023,
because in my opinion it will have an impact on the whole world.
On many levels.
Of course, as an economist, I will pay the most attention to these economic aspects,
but as a human being I will also look very carefully at political ones,
including those related to the outbreak of even some conflict.
You are talking about a military conflict.
Let's face it.
I would not like to use the words "World War III",
but such thoughts may come to mind.
At this point, we will take a short break,
we will be back after a moment of music.
Music
Music
Music
Our guest is an economist, financier, expert Mariusz Stefaniak.
We felt that the war is quite possible after the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine.
For us, it appeared, for example, with hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine.
So we see that it can have an impact on each of us.
Well, here I would like to debunk a myth.
And it's such a terrifying myth and widely believed to be true.
Number one. Currently, there are the most wars in the history of the world.
So it has never been as bad in the world as in recent years.
And contrary to what people think,
it was the time when pro-peaceful international organs were formed.
This should make you think.
Secondly, the gigantic concentration of power in one hand or in a small amount of hands
is usually a reason for anxiety or at least for very careful observation of this person who decides.
The truth is that people who currently hold power are not controlled by anyone.
Not only that, most of them are not even elected by people.
A classic example is the EU authorities.
Did you elect them?
Do you know who elected them, who decides who rules Europe?
Well, it's a very complicated system of indirect elections.
Representatives elect other representatives and so on and so forth.
At some point, you lose complete control over it.
Well, again, one of my important parts of my professional life is being an expert when it comes to European finance, European funds.
For many years, I have been teaching at graduate schools, I am the author of a book,
one of the first in Poland, written jointly with people from the Ministry,
on the subject of funds, the implementation of European funds.
So I also assume that I can speak quite sensibly in this area.
Believe me, the number of things, the number of absurdities,
which a normal person is not even able to believe, and which are of course a fact,
I also learned it directly from the European Parliamentarians,
because I was there, of course, I talked, I was there.
And believe me, it looks completely different than you could ever guess,
judging by leaks or some media information.
Most authorities look different if you are close to these authorities.
So please believe me, people don't know a lot of things.
A lot of things that fundamentally change the whole world view.
Well, I say, I am so lucky that my professional life is very closely related to business, finance,
and often, unfortunately, also with politics.
I say unfortunately, because what I have learned, what I have learned, has very, very, very changed my approach to it.
And I generally laugh that I have no political views.
Because I met people so highly positioned, so close, most of whom I know from TV,
that I look at political views completely differently.
At least political decisions.
And again, economic knowledge goes into the abyss.
The old Latin saying, "If you want to reach the truth, follow the path of money."
And this is a good advice, in my opinion, for every listener.
A short poem to sum up today's audition.
The old year is over.
Time to sum up.
Where are the gains and increases?
Bitcoins?
Apartments?
Losses?
War, crisis, fuel prices are rising.
I have enough promises.
I think I'm getting smarter.
This will also be the goal of our audition.
To talk about things that people don't quite understand, and often these are completely hidden matters.
Mr. Mariusz, thank you for the first time.
I hope we managed to interest and encourage the listeners.
We will be on the air again in a week.
This is "Grany", Mr. Mariusz.
Until next time.
Once again, our guest was an economist, financial expert, Mariusz Stefaniak.
Thank you very much.
The audition was conducted by Krzysztof Strauchman.
Inne Radio in Głuchołazy and the area 105,2.
www.youtube.com/InneRadioTVP
