1 [music] What's the score, Mr. Mariusz? And what did you hear there again? What's the score, Mr. Mariusz? Our guest is an economist, financial expert, Mariusz Stefaniak. Mr. Mariusz, I read the information from the Office of Credit Information, which stated that we have our own "ice age" when it comes to housing loans. In previous years, Poles took housing loans for granted, and now they don't. As if they didn't want to build houses or buy flats. The data of this office show that the amount of loans has fallen to 30% of what we borrowed a year ago. Development companies are already crying, literally, that they won't have anyone to build for in a moment. However, I have not found any information anywhere that significant housing prices have dropped, which should probably happen in this situation. We talked in August last year, and you predicted a crisis in the housing market and you predicted a decrease. Will these decreases occur? So yes, let me not agree with these theses. Poles want to buy flats and want to borrow. Banks stopped wanting to give them money. Next. According to the data I have, prices are falling for both flats and rent. For example, I will quote here, "The rent rates have fallen slightly after 10 months of continuous increases, according to the report of Expandera and Rentier.io. In October, the rent was 9 out of 16 poor cities, 2 out of 16 rates did not change, and 5 out of 16 further increases were noted." Let's read on. "Thanks to the decline in housing prices, the average rent of an apartment investment has increased to 5.54 net, which is equivalent to a flat with a 6.84% interest rate." So if you analyze the numbers on the market, it turns out that prices are falling. Of course, if we look even deeper into the data, it will turn out that last year there were significant increases resulting from the gigantic inflow of millions of refugees from Ukraine. So all of this means that despite this abnormal system of things, because no normal country is able to accept a few, as we had, 4 million officially Ukrainians who entered the Polish border, this is not a normal situation in any country in the world. And no real estate market could behave well in this situation, because it is an unhealthy, unnatural situation. If despite this, at the end of the year, and here I read the data from December 2022, it indicates that what I predicted, I remember that I said that to make it more or less make sense, the decline should be at the level of 30% of the value of the housing price. - You said so. - Yes, I remember that. So if you look at the current data, where 4 million people have flown, that is, people who have to live somewhere, and despite this, there are drops. Of course, these drops are after the wave of growth. Why? Because 4 million people have flown to rent a flat, to buy a flat and to rent a flat. But despite everything, our market was totally unequal. That is why these prices must fall. There is no way out. If the Ukrainians left, please believe me, what I predicted, it would be too little to stop the decline in housing prices. The additional fee idea is likely a temporary measure aimed at stabilizing the housing market and preventing further declines. It may not address the underlying structural issues that have led to the current crisis in housing lending.
